This document file includes information regarding memorial university courses and evaluations:
In this document Questions will be marked as Q and answers A.

Q: Is there anyway to contact Registrar’s office on Monday? it’s a holiday tho
A: Best to send an email or call first thing on Tuesday. As it’s a federal holiday, most offices on campus will be closed!
A: If you request your letter before Monday night you will get it Tuesday morning before 10

Q: Is the book really necessary for HKR-1000 (Fitness and Wellness) online? Has anyone done well without it?
A: The amount of time it takes to complete. 1st degree takes 3 years (in the program) because the schedule factors in time to comete your electives. 2nd degree takes 2 years as your electives are completed so the social work courses are compacted into a shorter schedule.
A: 1st degree you get as a 1st degree before you have a degree while 2nd degree you get it after you have already completed a bachelor in another subject. For second degrees many of your courses especially electives will transfer over and it won’t take as long

Q: If you finish your degree in August, can I actually get my degree/diploma before the convocation? Also, when do I apply to convocate of courses will be done in August (Spring)? Thanks
A: You will not receive your parchment until your graduation day as you technically are not graduated until then.
A: I got both my degrees without going to convocation

Q: How does applying for social work out of high school work? I know there isn’t direct entry but what do you do?
A: You have to do a general year and fulfill the 10 pre requisites. Once they are completed you can apply for admission to the BSW program
A: you have to do a general year, and within that year you need to do 10 courses that are apart of the complementary studies table, and get at least a 65+ in each course. You should also start looking into having volunteer/work experience that relate to the field of social work!!

Q: Is anyone who is taking / has taken any of the following courses be able to tell me the name of their textbook or dm me a picture of the cover? I would really appreciate it, thanks! 
- PHYS 1050
- PHYS 1051
- PHYS 1020
- PHYS 1021
- HUBI 2001
- HUBI 2002
- CHEM 2040
- STATS 2550 
- SOCI 1000

A: I had the code for the online Physics 1021 course last semester and didn’t even redeem it! You likely can go without that one in my opinion!

Q: Anyone know when we will hear back about prim/elementary as a first degree? I’m getting a bit anxious about it. TIA
A: I didnt hear back until may 26th last year!

Q: I sent an email to the math department tuesday morning regarding my in person midterm in June and still haven’t received an email from them. How long does it typically take for the math department to answer an email?
A: You could try popping by Dr Tara Stuckless' office. I'm sure she can help or at least point you in the right direction.

Q: Has anyone heard anything back from Education (Primary / Elementary) as a 2nd degree? When did acceptances come out in previous years?
A: In previous years, I believe it was end of april-early may; not sure what the delay is this year.

Q: Is parking free at MUN right now or do you still need a permit/pay to park?
A: I am under the impression that parking is only free during final exam week. I wouldn’t assume parking is free, however, this semester it may be easier to find spots.

Q: Is lectures still happening Monday with Victoria Day or is MUN closed?
A: Depends on the prof! Most have it in the syllabus!

Q: Does anyone know when we should expect to hear back from the PN program at CNS?
A: I didn’t find out till June back in 2022!

Q: Just wondering what constitutes a full time student in the context of a Master’s program? Student aid/MUN registrar’s office can’t give me a straight answer. I’m applying for a Master’s of Education to commence in winter 2025 and I’ll be substituting while completing my degree. I’m also a student with a permanent disability, and I need to know whether to apply to student aid as a full time or part time student.
A: From my understanding it’s how you declare yourself in the application. I would email the school of grad studies as they should be able to give you a better response! Sgs@mun.ca

Q: Looking for any advice on how to best prepare for Dr. Trela’s Bio 1002 exams and do well on them
A: The review he posts and practice exams along with diagrams!
A: Reading the slides repeatedly until you become familiar with all the content. Make flashcards on the stuff you continue to mix up/forget (or do any other form of active recall). The diagrams are super important too! Hope this helps!

Q: Anyone done RELS 1000/2610 with Laura Jurgens before? How is the course load like and is there a course outline someone can provide please?
A: i took 2610 with rebidoux last year when it was online. i can’t speak to jurgens, but the course itself was wicked. it’s one of my favourites; definitely recommend. granted, the prof was awesome too, so that probably played a part

Q: Does anyone know when we will hear back about applications for Social Work as a first degree?
A: Mid to late June is what I heard
A: I heard back mid June!

Q: How can I practice my French speaking before my upcoming explore program? Any help is appreciated!
A: Before moving here I learned English on italki. It's a platform for language exchange. Not sure if it's still around but it helped me a lot for sure

A: Bonne chance !!

Q: Some recommend Busi  3350  financial management with prof Ashrafee and some say it is difficult .What is the outline for exams and quizzes right now ? 
I am confused and need to get A to boost GPA

A: The time when he had only 10 quizzes worth 10% it was an easy A
So it really depends on the outline right now

Q: Hey Everyone!!
I was wondering if it’s possible to double major in neuroscience and human biosciences, with a minor in chem? I’m not so sure if you could do the minor, but I just wanted to double check.
A: it’s probably possible, id suggest to maybe e-mail chemapo@mun.ca with your questions regarding hubi and chem
A: Shouldn’t be a problem, your only issue will likely be fitting all the requirements in without overlaps!

Q: Hi! If i am not admitted to the engineering one program because i lack a requirement.. does that mean ill have to be in uni for another year?
A: I don't know what the engineering one program is like, but I think you would still be able to complete other courses while you're finishing a requirement before you're admitted.
For example, you can probably start completing what engineering courses you can do now. Some first and second-year courses don't require you to be in the program to complete it, but some other courses are first reserved for those in the programs. The reserve is usually lifted after a certain date, and depending on the space available, anyone can apply for the course, whether they intend to join the program later on or as a general elective.
I think the reserved courses are very competitive, and usually, there's no space after the reserve is lifted, but if you keep an eye out on the first few days of classes, sometimes people drop the course, and then you could get in. Also, it wouldn't hurt to contact the prof to see if they'll let you in even if the class is full.
So, you don't necessarily have to wait a year to get started on the courses. But it might be difficult if you're trying to get into a reserved course.
Also, you can start completing your general electives if you haven't already.

A: You can go to mun and do the requirements in the first semester and apply for engineering again so you finish it in the winter and spring semesters

Q: I applied for student aid but i need to make a small tweak in my application, how would i go about this?
A: Go to student aid, if you can’t, just call them.
A: Studentaidenquiry@gov.nl.ca

Q: I was wondering if anyone has done the asynchronous interview for the PharmD program? I've never known it to be done this way so just wondering how it worked

A: It’s the first year of doing them this way so there would not be previous students with experience doing asynchronous interviews

Q: When I graduate, I will have completed 141 credits. This may be a dumb question, but is there a maximum amount of credits I can complete in one degree? Is that too many?

A: Every degree has X amount of credits, if you’ve done more, they won’t count.
Whoever does your audit will only take into account what you need to graduate

Q: Is the deadline for dropping courses for undergraduate today? 
Coz in Calendar it is today but When I fill form to drop,there is a note says deadline is 2 weeks after Lectures begin
A: Intercession courses are today.
Spring courses are the 20th

Q: How are my odds getting into the psychology major with a gpa of 3.33 I contacted the academic advisor and they said that they base your application off of your overall gpa or your gpa of your last two full time semesters. Whatever one is higher is considered. in the fall semester I received a 3.25 gpa and in the winter semester I received a 3.5 gpa. So I assume that would be a 3.33.
A: Admission into the psych major is competitive and depends on the avg gpa of who applies. I think on the website they say you need at least a 75 but I think the cut off is typically in the low 80’s (I’m not sure what that equals out to as a gpa). You could ask them what the previous couple years cut offs have been!

Q: Hit me with the easiest electives you've done!
A: Geo 1050, religious studies 2610, police studies 1000, 2200, law 1000, gender 1000, psych 1001
A: ED2040, GEOG2001, HKR1000, EASC2150
A: PSYC 1000 and 1001
A: Geo 1050 and hkr 1000, lwso 1000, folklore 1000

